# eve-trajectory-mining
Innovating is a valuable process and often leads to success in many academic,  professional, and personal pursuits. Predicting this success has historically relied on  experience, research, and a bit of luck. However, predictive analysis methods can now  analyze entire careers and identity patterns of innovation that may be contributing to the  success of the career, independent of the innovations themselves. This is a modern area  of little research which can only be remedied by today’s latest advances in machine  learning and predictive analysis methods. Ultimately, analyzing how various intervals of  exploration and exploitation in long-term careers affect success may allow businesses  and individuals to reach new levels of success. Towards this end, this study has collected  and analyzed career time series data in the MMORPG “EVE Online”, where players spend  months to years investing in and innovating on their unique playstyle. Current  correlations indicate that success, defined as kill to death percentage, is highly  unpredictable from the evolution of a single player’s strategy, defined as their trajectory;  however, in a large long-run sample, groups of players with similar success may exhibit  similar trajectories. This study proposes that by exploring the effects of time-series  clustering on pattern recognition, correlations may emerge that indicate the effect  intervals of innovation have on success over the span of an average career of this type. 
